What Can I Include in Square Footage?
In this video, we are going to cover
what can and cannot be included when
listing the square footage of your home.
Square footage is an important detail
for buyers, but it is also an area
where mistakes or misunderstandings
can cause problems later.
The goal is to be accurate,
transparent, and clear.
Always Disclose Your Source.
If you list the square footage of
your property, you should always
disclose where that number came from.
This might be a prior appraisal,
tax records, a survey, builder
plans, or another source.
If you have any reason to believe the
square footage from your source may not
be accurate, that should be disclosed.
What Is Typically Included in Texas?
In Texas, square footage generally
includes interior living areas that
are finished, enclosed, and part
of the main structure of the home.
This means bedrooms, bathrooms,
living areas, and other spaces
that are heated and cooled.
Interior closets, entryways, utility
rooms, and mud rooms are typically
included as long as they are finished
and part of the living space.
Enclosed patios may be included only if
they are heated and cooled and similar
in quality to the rest of the home.
Finished attic space may be included if
it conforms to the original structure, is
heated and cooled, and is finished to the
same standard as the rest of the home.
What Is Not Included?
Garages are not included unless they
have been properly converted to living
space that is heated and cooled.
Screened patios, unfinished areas,
and open second-floor spaces, such
as areas above vaulted rooms or
stairways, are also not included.
Detached spaces, like an office or
guest room in a separate building, are
measured separately and should not be
combined with the home’s square footage.
Accurate square footage avoids
misunderstandings and helps keep the sale
moving forward without unnecessary issues.